Improving LLM performance for quickstarter guides. -- v1 (#149)
teamhanko/docs: guides/flow-api/understanding-the-flow-api.mdx

description: A brief introduction in how the FlowAPI works.
---

<div class="hidden">
# Hanko Flow API Understanding Guide

**About Hanko**: Hanko is a passwordless authentication solution that enables secure, modern user authentication experiences. The Flow API is a state-driven system that simplifies frontend development by managing authentication flow logic on the backend, reducing frontend complexity and making flows more maintainable.

**What This Guide Covers**: This guide explains the fundamental concepts behind the Hanko Flow API, including how states and actions work, how to initialize and interact with flows, handle validation and technical errors, and configure flow behavior for your applications.

**Key Technologies**: Hanko Flow API, REST endpoints, JavaScript/TypeScript, state-driven architecture, JSON request/response handling, CSRF protection, client-server communication

> **Prerequisites**: Basic understanding of REST APIs, HTTP requests and responses, JSON data format, client-side JavaScript development, authentication flow concepts

Reviewer: Also here, why isn't it a list like in the other guides?

Author: Fixed.

**Tasks You'll Complete**:
- Understand the Flow API's state-driven architecture
- Learn about states, actions, and input validation system
- Master flow initialization with POST requests
- Implement proper action execution with input data
- Handle validation errors and user feedback
- Manage technical errors and flow recovery
- Configure flows for different authentication scenarios
- Apply best practices for Flow API integration
</div>

## Introduction

> The Flow API simplifies frontend development by moving authentication flow logic to the backend. Traditional authentication implementations require frontends to manage complex state transitions, predict next steps, and handle various configuration options. This complexity increases maintenance overhead and makes configuration changes difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Flow API simplifies frontend development by moving authentication flow logic to the backend. The Hanko API before version 1.0 require frontends to manage complex state transitions, predict next steps, and handle various configuration options. This complexity increases maintenance overhead and makes configuration changes difficult.
```
